# Dataverse Software 5.4.1

This release provides a fix for a regression introduced in 5.4 and implements a few other small changes. Please use 5.4.1 for production deployments instead of 5.4.

## Release Highlights

### API Backwards Compatibility Maintained

The syntax in the example in the [Basic File Access](https://guides.dataverse.org/en/5.4.1/api/dataaccess.html#basic-file-access) section of the Dataverse Software Guides will continue to work.

### Direct Upload API Now Available for Replacing Files

Users can now replace files using the direct upload API. For more information, see the [Direct DataFile Upload/Replace API](https://guides.dataverse.org/en/5.4.1/developers/s3-direct-upload-api.html) section of the Dataverse Software Guides.

## Complete List of Changes

For the complete list of code changes in this release, see the [5.4.1 Milestone](https://github.com/IQSS/dataverse/milestone/95?closed=1) in Github.

For help with upgrading, installing, or general questions please post to the [Dataverse Community Google Group](https://groups.google.com/forum/#!forum/dataverse-community) or email support@dataverse.org.

## Installation

If this is a new installation, please see our [Installation Guide](https://guides.dataverse.org/en/5.4.1/installation/).

## Upgrade Instructions

0\. These instructions assume that you've already successfully upgraded from Dataverse Software 4.x to Dataverse Software 5 following the instructions in the [Dataverse Software 5 Release Notes](https://github.com/IQSS/dataverse/releases/tag/v5.0). After upgrading from the 4.x series to 5.0, you should progress through the other 5.x releases before attempting the upgrade to 5.4.1.

If you are running Payara as a non-root user (and you should be!), **remember not to execute the commands below as root**. Use `sudo` to change to that user first. For example, `sudo -i -u dataverse` if `dataverse` is your dedicated application user.  

In the following commands we assume that Payara 5 is installed in `/usr/local/payara5`. If not, adjust as needed.

`export PAYARA=/usr/local/payara5`

(or `setenv PAYARA /usr/local/payara5` if you are using a `csh`-like shell)

1\. Undeploy the previous version.

- `$PAYARA/bin/asadmin list-applications`
- `$PAYARA/bin/asadmin undeploy dataverse<-version>`

2\. Stop Payara and remove the generated directory

- `service payara stop`
- `rm -rf $PAYARA/glassfish/domains/domain1/generated`

3\. Start Payara

- `service payara start`
  
4\. Deploy this version.

- `$PAYARA/bin/asadmin deploy dataverse-5.4.1.war`

5\. Restart payara

- `service payara stop`
- `service payara start`
